---
layout: post
title: Development of Portal for Market Linkage between Poultry Farmers, Potential Buyers and Poultry Mapping Business Services in Tanzania
subtitle: A summary of Evelyn Mshana's Research Work
cover-img: /assets/img/poultryontheroad.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/cagedchickens.jpg
comments: true
---
Online application for linking poultry farmers and agro-vet services. Poultry farming is the fastest mounting livestock sectors in the world, the global world poultry predicts by 2050 there will be a great demand of approximately 121% of poultry meat and 65% of eggs. 
However, poultry farming is facing some challenges which are uneven distribution of the agro-vet services, lack of location information of the agro-vet services which will ensure high quality improved feeds and inadequate delivery of extension services to the poultry farmers.
The poultry farmer’s as a result lacks accurate and reliable information and services which help them in improving their poultry farming productivity. 

Simple random sampling was piloted in selecting the participants of the study. Where the study involved poultry farmers, agro-vet owners and extension officers. 
Questionnaires were used to gather data in the field and the data collected was confirmed. 
The findings obtained were then analyzed by Python Pandas as an open source tool and later presented as figures and tables. 
This research study therefore, proposes the development of mobile application using Model View Controller Architecture to locate the agro-vet services which are near the poultry farmer’s locality, through which the poultry farmer will be able to access all required extension and agro-vet services & products needed to improve productivity easily.
Furthermore, it will also help the government as well as the decision makers to invest in poultry farming in areas where services are few and yet demand is high.

