---
layout: post
title: Mobile-Based Decision Support System for Poultry Farmers
subtitle: A summary of Martha Shapa's Research Work
cover-img: /assets/img/poultryfarmers.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/bluefarmersposing.jpg
comments: true
---

Poultry farms in Tanzania are characterized by inadequate management practices which are mainly caused by the lack of adequate systems to guide farmers in decision making. It is well-established that information is a key factor in making effective decisions in numerous sectors including poultry farming. Furthermore, various researchers have identified the use of mobile decision support tools to be an effective way of aiding farmers in making informed decisions. This study deliberates the development of a mobile-based decision support system that will aid rural and small-scale poultry farmers in Tanzania to obtain reliable information that is crucial for making proper decisions in their farming activities. In this context, Decision Support Systems (DSS) are defined as interactive computer-based systems that enable people to use information technology, data, documents, and knowledge to solve problems and make decisions. This study discusses a data-driven approach towards developing a decision support system for poultry farmers in Tanzania.

The systematic approach used in this study comprised of the following steps, firstly an exhaustive literature review was conducted to assess and identify the information management needs of small-scale poultry farmers in Tanzania. The identified needs that poultry farmers frequently seek includes information on chicken health, chicken feeds, egg production, and chicken breeds. Secondly, the obtained information needs were analyzed and used to establish user requirements for the decision support system. Lastly, the development of the mobile-based decision support system was carried out after establishing user requirements. A conversational mobile-based decision support application that provides information to farmers based on their needs through a text-based chat conversation was developed using Android Studio, and RASA which is an open-source machine learning framework for building chat and voice contextual assistants.
